.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH FWTS 1 "24 August, 2017"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
fwts \- a firmware test suite to identify firmware bugs.
.br

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fwts
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ test(s) ]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B fwts
firmware test suite.
The tool
.B fwts
is comprised of over fifty tests that are designed to examine and test
different aspects of PC firmware.  Many of these tests need super user
access to extract tables and interact with the firmware and ACPI, so running
.B
fwts
using sudo is required.
.br
Running
.B
fwts
with no options will run through all the batch tests that require no user interaction.
However, one can select just specific tests to run if required.
.P
By default
.B
fwts
outputs the test results into the log file
.B
results.log
however a different log file name can be specified and if required, output to stderr or stdout can be selected.
.P
Note that there a variety of tests, including tests that can potentially hang a machine (such as a suspend/hibernate/resume).

.SH OPTIONS
fwts options are as follow:
.TP
.B \-
output results to stdout.
.TP
.B \-\-acpica
enable ACPICA execution mode options. These can be specified as a comma separated
list of one or more options.  Avaiable options are: serialized (serialized execution
of AML), slack (run in less pedeantic mode), ignore\-errors (ignore ACPICA exception
errors), disable\-auto\-repair (disable ACPICA from automatically fixing broken ACPICA controls).
Note that the slack mode will turn on implicit returns of zero on control methods to attempt
to allow buggy AML to work on non-Windows systems.
.TP
.B \-\-acpica\-debug
enable ACPICA debug warning and error messages when invoking the ACPICA subsystem. This is mainly
for fwts developers to help track down any ACPICA interfacing issues with fwts.
.TP
.B \-\-acpicompliance
run only those tests that specifically check for compliance with the ACPI
specifications.  This may be a subset of the ACPI tests.
.TP
.B \-\-acpitests
run all general ACPI tests.
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-all
run all the tests.
.TP
.B \-\-arch=name
specify the target architecture whose firmware is being tested.  This allows
fwts to run on one architecture (the host) but perform tests for a different
architecture (the target).  Known architecture strings are: x86, x86_32, or
x86_64 for Intel; ia64 for Itanium; arm64 or aarch64 for ARMv8.  Unless this
option is specified, the target is assumed to be the same as the host.
.TP
.B \-b, \-\-batch
run the non-interactive batch tests. Batch tests require no user interaction.
.TP
.B \-\-batch\-experimental
run only batch experimental tests.
.TP
.B \-\-clog
specify a coreboot logfile dump.
.TP
.B \-\-disassemble\-aml
disassemble AML (ACPI machine language) byte code. This attempts to disassemble AML in DSDT and SSDT
tables and generates DSDT.dsl and SSDTx.dsl sources.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-dump
extracts firmware data and dumps it into log files. This generates:
.br
acpidump.log \- containing a hex dump of the ACPI tables (which can be read using acpixtract).
.br
dmesg.log \- containing the current kernel log messages.
.br
dmidecode.log \- containing the output from dmidecode.
.br
lspci.log \- containing the output from lspci \-vv \-nn
.br
cpuinfo.log \- containing the output from cat /proc/cpuinfo
.br
README.txt \- containing a timestamp and kernel version information.
.TP
.B \-\-dumpfile=acpidump.log
load ACPI tables from output generated from acpidump or from sudo fwts \-\-dump.  The
latter is preferred as fwts \-\-dump is able to dump more tables than acpidump. This
allows one to dump tables from one machine and processes them with fwts on another machine.
.TP
.B \-\-uefi\-get\-var\-multiple
specifies the number of times to get a variable in the uefirtvariable get variable stress test.
.TP
.B \-\-uefi\-set\-var\-multiple
specifies the number of times to set a variable in the uefirtvariable set variable stress test.
.TP
.B \-\-uefi\-query\-var\-multiple
specifies the number of times to query a variable in the uefirtvariable query variable stress test.
.TP
.B \-\-uefitests
run all general UEFI tests.
.TP
.B \-\-filter\-error\-discard
specifies the errors that one wants to silently ignore.  One supplies a comma sperated
list of fwts error message labels that one wants fwts to not report as errors. fwts will
run the test but if there is a test failure and the label matches the one supplied in this
list fwts will then just ignore this error. This cannot be used with \-\-filter\-error\-keep.
.TP
.B \-\-filter\-error\-keep
specifies the errors that one wants to keep, all other errors are silently ignored.
One supplies a comma sperated list of fwts error message labels that one wants fwts
report as errors, other test failures will be not reported and silently ignored.
This cannot be used with \-\-filter\-error\-discard.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-force\-clean
creates a new results log file, rather than just appending to any existing one (default).
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
outputs the internal help page.
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-interactive
run the interactive tests. These tests require user interaction.
.TP
.B \-\-ifv
run tests in firmware-vendor modes.
.TP
.B \-\-interactive\-experimental
run only interactive experimental tests.
.TP
.B \-j, \-\-json\-data\-path
specifies the path to the fwts json data files. These files contain json formatted
configuration tables, for example klog scanning patterns.
.TP
.B \-k, \-\-klog=file
read the kernel log from the specified file rather than from the kernel log ring buffer. This
allows one to run the kernel log scanning tests such as klog against pre-gathered log data.
.TP
.B \-\-log\-fields
show the available log filtering fields. Specifying these fields with \-\-log\-filter to
select which fields one wants to log.
.TP
.B \-\-log\-filter
specify which particular types of log data to be output into the log file. Each line of
log data is tagged with a special marker depending on what type of log information is being
output. The available types can be see by using \-\-log\-fields. Specify the desired log types
with comma separated list. To disable a field, prefix the name with ~, for example:
.br
\-\-log\-filter=RES,SUM  logs just the results and summary lines.
.br
\-\-log\-filter=ALL,~INF  logs all lines except for the information lines.
.TP
.B \-\-log\-format
specify the information in each log line. The following specifiers are available:
.br
%date  \- date
.br
%time  \- time
.br
%field \- log\-filter fields
.br
%owner \- name of the test routine
.br
%level \- test failure level
.br
%line  \- log line
.br
e.g. \-\-log\-format="%date %time [%field] (%owner): "
.TP
.B \-\-log\-level [critical|high|medium|low|info|all]
specify the test failure level to log. Test failure levels equal to and
higher than the specified are logged and recorded as failures. The default
is 'all' (which is identical to 'info').  For example, a log level of 'medium'
will just log test failures of level 'medium', 'high' and 'critical',
where as a log level of 'critical' will just log 'critical' level failures.
.TP
.B \-\-log\-type
specify the log type. Currently plaintext, json and xml log types are available and the
default is plaintext.
.TP
.B \-\-lspci=path
specify the full path and filename to the the lspci binary.
.TP
.B \-P, \-\-power\-states
run S3 and S4 power state tests (s3, s4 tests)
.TP
.B \-\-results\-no\-separators
no pretty printing of horizontal separators in the results log file.
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-results\-output=filename
specify the results output log file.
One can also specify stdout and stderr to redirect to these output streams.
.TP
.B \-R, \-\-rsdp=physaddr
specify the physical address of ACPI RSDP. This is useful on some systems where
it cannot be automatically detected.
.TP
.B \-\-pm\-method=method
specify the power method to use to enter S3 or S4 (or autodetection will be used). The following specifiers are available:
.br
logind   \- the default method, where available (requires dbus and logind).
.br
pm-utils \- the previous default method, now deprecated.
.br
sysfs    \- the fallback, used when logind is not available.
.br
e.g. \-\-pm\-method=sysfs
.TP
.B \-\-s3\-delay\-delta=N
time to be added onto delay between each S3 iteration.
.TP
.B \-\-s3\-device\-check
check differences between device configurations over a S3 cycle. Note this adds 15 seconds delay after each
s3 resume to allow wifi to re-associate.
.TP
.B \-\-s3\-device\-check\-delay
specify the time to wait while devices re-configure (e.g. wifi to re-associate, ethernet to connect..)
before a device configuration check is run. The default is 15 seconds.  If this option is used the
device checking is assumed so one does not also need to use the \-\-s3\-device\-check flag.
.TP
.B \-\-s3\-hybrid
enables fwts to run Hybrid Sleep.
.TP
.B \-\-s3\-min\-delay=N
minimum time between S3 iterations.
.TP
.B \-\-s3\-max\-delay=N
maximum time between S3 iterations.
.TP
.B \-\-s3\-multiple=N
specified the number of multiple S3 suspend/resume tests to run. The default
is 2 tests.
.TP
.B \-\-s3\-resume\-hook=hookscript
specifies a script or program to run after each S3 resume. The hookscript must
return 0 to indicate success, or non-zero to indicate failure.  Failures will
abort subsequent S3 test iterations.
.TP
.B \-\-s3\-quirks=--quirk[,--quirk]
specify a comma separated list of quirk arguments to pass to pm-suspend, for example: \-\-s3\-quirks=\-\-quirk\-s3\-bios,\-\-quirk\-save\-pci
.TP
.B \-\-s3\-sleep\-delay=N
sleep N seconds from the start of the suspend to the wakeup time. Note that this
time MUST be longer than the time it takes to suspend the machine otherwise the
wakeup timer will fire during the suspend state. The default is 30 seconds.
.TP
.B \-\-s3\-suspend\-time=N
specify the maximum allowed suspend time in seconds. If suspend takes longer than
this then an error is logged.
.TP
.B \-\-s3\-resume\-time=N
specify the maximum allowed resume time in seconds. If resume takes longer than
this then an error is logged.
.TP
.B \-\-s3power\-sleep\-delay=N
specify the suspend duration in seconds.  The higher the value the more accurate the s3power test result.  Durations less than 10 minutes are not recommended.
.TP
.B \-\-s4\-delay\-delta=N
time to be added onto delay between each S4 iteration.
.TP
.B \-\-s4\-device\-check
check differences between device configurations over a S4 cycle. Note this adds 15 seconds delay after each
s3 resume to allow wifi to re-associate.
.TP
.B \-\-s4\-device\-check\-delay
specify the time to wait while devices re-configure (e.g. wifi to re-associate, ethernet to connect..)
before a device configuration check is run. The default is 15 seconds.  If this option is used the
device checking is assumed so one does not also need to use the \-\-s4\-device\-check flag.
.TP
.B \-\-s4\-min\-delay=N
minimum time between S4 iterations.
.TP
.B \-\-s4\-max\-delay=N
maximum time between S4 iterations.
.TP
.B \-\-s4\-multiple=N
specified the number of multiple S4 hibernate/resume tests to run. The default
is 2 tests.
.TP
.B \-\-s4\-quirks=--quirk[,--quirk]
specify a comma separated list of quirk arguments to pass to pm-hibernate, for example: \-\-s4\-quirks=\-\-quirk\-save\-pci
.TP
.B \-\-s4\-sleep\-delay=N
sleep N seconds from the start of the hibernate to the wakeup time. Note that this
time MUST be longer than the time it takes to hibernate the machine otherwise the
wakeup timer will fire during the hibernate state. The default is currently 90 seconds.
.TP
.B \-\-sbbr
run ARM SBBR tests
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-show\-progress
show the progress of the tests being run. Each test will identified as it is being
run. For long tests, a percentage of completion time will be displayed. As of fwts
0.19.06 this is enabled by default and can be disabled with \-\-quiet (or \-q).
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
run quietly with no output to stdout.
.TP
.B \-D, \-\-show\-progress\-dialog
output the progress of tests being run in a form that can be piped into the
dialog tool with the \-\-gauge option.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-show\-tests
show the names of available tests. By default will show all tests. Use the \-\-batch, \-\-interactive, \-\-batch\-experimental, \-\-interactive\-experimental, \-\-utils
options to show these specific tests.
.TP
.B \-\-show\-tests\-full
show all the available tests listed by minor test description. By default will show all tests. Use the \-\-batch, \-\-interactive, \-\-batch\-experimental, \-\-interactive\-experimental
options to show these specific tests.
.TP
.B \-\-show\-tests\-categories
show all the available tests and the categories they belong to.
.TP
.B \-\-skip\-test=test[,test..]
specify tests to skip over and not run. List must be comma separated.
.TP
.B \-\-stdout\-summary
output SUCCESS or FAILED to stdout at end of tests.
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-table\-path=path
specify the path containing ACPI tables. These tables need to be named in the format: tablename.dat,
for example DSDT.dat, for example, as extracted using acpidump or fwts \-\-dump and then acpixtract.
.TP
.B \-u, \-\-utils
run utilities. Designed to dump system information, such as annotated ACPI tables, CMOS memory,
Int 15 E820 memory map, firmware ROM data.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
output version number and build date of the
.B
fwts
tool.
.TP
.B \-w, \-\-width=N
specify the width in characters of the output logfile. The default is 130.

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
Run all the batch tests and append the results into the default log results.log:
.RS 8
sudo fwts
.RE
.LP
Run all the interactive tests and start a clean results log called interactive.log:
.RS 8
sudo fwts \-i \-f \-r interactive.log
.br
.RE
.LP
Run all the tests, interactive and batch:
.RS 8
sudo fwts \-i \-b
.RE
.LP
Run just the battery and cpufreq tests:
.RS 8
sudo fwts battery cpufreq
.RE
.LP
Run all the batch tests and define a new log format using just the date and line number:
.RS 8
sudo fwts \-\-log\-format="%date %line: "
.RE
.LP
Run all the interative tests and log just the results, info and summary data:
.RS 8
sudo fwts \-i \-\-log\-filter=RES,INF,SUM
.RE
.LP
Dump all the interesting firmware information into log files for analysis later:
.RS 8
sudo fwts \-\-dump
.RE
.LP
View kernel and ACPI driver version and BIOS information:
.RS 8
sudo fwts  \-w 80 \-r stdout  version bios_info \-\-log\-filter=INF \-\-log\-format=""
.RE
.LP
Show the batch and batch experimental tests:
.RS 8
fwts \-\-show\-tests \-\-batch \-\-batch\-experimental
.RE
.LP
Run multiple S3 tests with delay between each test ranging from 1 second to 10 seconds with a delay delta per test of 0.2 seconds
.RS 8
sudo fwts s3 \-\-s3\-multiple=100 \-\-s3\-min\-delay=1 \-\-s3\-max\-delay=10 \-\-s3\-delay\-delta=0.2

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iasl (1),
.BR acpixtract (1),
.BR acpidump (1),
.BR dtc (1),
.BR dmidecode (8),
.BR lspci (8)
.SH AUTHOR
fwts was originally written by Colin King with much of the original test
code derived from the Intel Linux Firmware test kit.  Many thanks also for
contributions from (in alpabetical order): AceLan Kao, Al Stone, Alberto
Milone, Alex Hung, Anthony Wong, Chris Goldsworthy, Chris Van Hoof,
David Ward, Deb McLemore, Erico Nunes, Fan Wu, Fu Wei, Heyi Guo, Ivan Hu,
Jeffrey Hugo, Jeremy Kerr, Jiri Vohanka, Kamal Mostafa, Keng-Yu Lin,
Mahesh Bireddy, Matt Flemimg, Naresh Bhat, Paul Menzel, Phidias Chiang,
Pradeep Gaddam, Prarit Bhargava, Rajat Goyal, Ricardo Neri, Robert Hooker,
Rudolf Marek, Sakar Arora, Seth Forshee, Yang Kun, Yi Li and Zhang Rui.
.PP
This manual page was written by Colin King for the Ubuntu project
(but may be used by others).
.PP
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
