.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH FWTS 1 "5 February, 2015"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
fwts-collect \- collect logs for fwts bug reporting.
.br

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fwts-collect
.RI [ FILES ]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B fwts-collect
firmware test suite log collecting tool.
The tool
.B fwts-collect
collects logs and various system and firmware dumps into the gzip'd tar ball
fwts-logs.tar.gz which can then be added to bug reports.  It collects data
from /proc/iomem, /proc/mtrr, /proc/interrupts, IRQ counts from
/sys/firmware/acpi/interrupts and kernel logs.  It also invokes fwts and
gathers ACPI tables, memorymaps, MultiProcessor table dumps, CMOS data,
UEFI variables, kernel version and ACPI version information.
.B
fwts
using sudo is required.
.br
Running
.B
fwts
with no options will collect logs automatically. However, one can also
specify the names of addition files to be added to the gzip'd tar ball.
.P
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
Gather up logs into fwts-logs.tar.gz
.RS 8
sudo fwts-collect
.RE
.LP
Gather up logs and also /var/log/pm-powersave.log
.RS 8
sudo fwts-collect /var/log/pm-powersave.log
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fwts (1), 
.BR dmidecode (8), 
.BR lspci (8)
.SH AUTHOR
fwts-collect was written by Colin King <colin.king@canonical.com>
.PP
This manual page was written by Colin King <colin.king@canonical.com>,
for the Ubuntu project (but may be used by others).
